The motivation for this work is the resolution of a consumer problem,
felt in first hand. Specifically, how online traveling agencies do not offer
support and optimization for complex airplane routes. In this work, we wish
to address this problem. We propose a complete system for the implementation
of such functionalities in a web application,
aswel as an optimization algorithm for the resolution of such problem.

Online Traveling Agencies are online applications which sell traveling goods,
as commercial flights. Althoug users still have the option of buying
their airplane tickets in the respective airline company website,
57% of today's users buy tickets from an OTA. This businness is increasing in size,
offering a variety of consumer goods, including hotel and car rental,
as well as cruiseships, and are also expecting to enter the rail businness.
In fact, the size of the OTA market is expected to reach a global value of 1000B$,
by 2022.  This market is dominated by two comapny aggregates,
while Google, with its Google Flights service, is growing in market size.

The user functionality of the majority of the websites has increased,
by prodiving users with some refined search experience. These functionalities
include price overview over extended search periods
and price tracking in real time.

However, when searching for a trip
with more than two flights, users are not offered any search functionalities.
Instead, to find the cheapest trip, users need to check any
possible combination of flights, one by one. As the trip size increases, finding
the cheapest trip becomes virtualy impossible for a human. Because of this,
users will ultimately pay more than necessary for this service.

Most user trips can be modulated as a Traveling Salesman problem, or a variation
of it. For example, a two way flight is a two city TSP problem. This problem has
a specific depot, and the cost between the two arcs varies over time. This means
that in fact, this problem must be addressed as time dependent TSP variation.

Ant colony optimization is a meta heuristic algorithm which provide
high quality solutions in a short ammount of time. This algorithm
can be adapted to the resolution of any combinatorial optimization Problem,
as is the TSP and the TDTSP.

The Traveling Salesman Problem requires a cost matrix with the
cost of any possible flight between two cities. Because of this,
the resolution of this problem requires an extensive ammount of data.

Public flight API's charge a fixed fee for the request of any flight data.
Due to this, requesting flight information through a public API to describe
a TSP instance is an expensive process. The alternative to this is designing
a data mining algorithm which scrapes the web for the data necessary to solve
the TSP instances.
