
->>>>>>Online Travel Industry Report - Nihar Patel - Henry B. Tippe School of Management 

"The Online Travel Agency industry is composed of
websites that allow consumers to search for and
purchase airline tickets, car rentals, or hotel
accommodations from providers of those
services. The companies only serve as an
intermediary in the transaction"

"Advertising to website visitors forms a small part
of revenues"

"Most of the websites function like metasearch engines
that pull prices and offerings from their network, and in
some cases the websites of the providers themselves. The
term metasearch is used since each provider’s website is a
search engine that shows listings from only that company "

"Revenue falls into one of three
 buckets"

"agency revenues where the website is simply an
intermediary that connects a traveler with a provider of
travel services, but the website is not the merchant of
record"

"merchant revenues where the website is the
merchant of record, and costs associated with the
transaction are borne by the website owner"

"advertisement bucket, the smallest"

"The primary revenue segment depends on the business
model of the company. "


Online Traveling Agencies are a group of websites which allow consumers to search and purchase 
traveling goods, as commercia flights, hotel accommodation or car rental.
Most of these websites operate as metasearch engines, 
responding to user requests by collecting and processing data from different services providers.

The scope of the services provided by these websites is composed of three segments: 
transportation, accomodation and review.


Depending on the services provided by each application, and to its companies businness model,
the revenue of the OTA's is mostly divided into three buckets.
The first is agency revenues, where the websites serves solely as an intermedary
between a user and a provider of travel services.
The second is merchant revenues, where 


->>>>>>>>>>> https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/online-travel-market-is-estimated-to-generate-1091-billion-globally-by-2022---allied-market-research-611213315.html~

"the global online travel market is estimated to reach $1,091 billion by 2022"

"Growth of the online travel market is driven by the increase in internet penetration, (...) "

"Direct travel suppliers segment accounted for approximately 57% (...)" while OTA's account for the rest 

"Based on booking platforms, the market is segmented into mobile and desktop. Mobile platform attributes to two-sevenths of the market revenue and is anticipated to witness highest growth in coming years."

"Transportation segment is projected to maintain its lead in the overall online travel services market, owing to rise in online flight bookings. "


